Ricardo Baeza-Yates' Personal Web Site 



Versión en castellano


Ricardo Baeza-Yates' Personal Web Site




 

      Ricardo Baeza-Yates is VP of Research for Europe and Latin America, leading
the Yahoo! Research labs at 
Barcelona, Spain and Santiago, Chile. Until 2012 he also supervised the lab in
Haifa, Israel. Until 2005 he was the
director of the Center for Web Research at the Department of Computer Science of the Engineering School  of the University
of Chile; and ICREA Professor and founder of the Web Research Group at the Dept. of Information and Communication Technologies of
Universitat Pompeu Fabra in
Barcelona, Spain.
He maintains ties with both mentioned universities as a part-time
professor for the Ph.D. program.  
His research interests includes
algorithms and data structures, information
retrieval, web data mining, and data visualization.
He is ACM Fellow and IEEE Fellow.
Curriculum Vitae &gt;&gt;
NEW: Second Edition of Modern Information
Retrieval (Addison Wesley, 2011)
NEW: 32 Years of Computing: From Student to Fellow
(in Spanish, Bits Magazine, DCC, Univ. of Chile, Nov 2011)

Contact | Research | Selected Writings | Links | Personal

Contact

	Barcelona Media Innovation Centre (FBM-UPF)
	Diagonal 177, 9th floor
	08018 Barcelona 
	Catalunya, Spain
	E-Mail: hiveware_enkoder_UPF()
	Tel.: +34 93 1838900
	Fax: +34 93 1838901
	 
	
      Dept. of Computer Science
      Universidad de Chile
      Blanco Encalada 2120
      6511224 Santiago 
      Chile 
	
	Tel.: +56 2 978 4632
	Fax: +56 2 689 5531
	
	
Research
Publications
Books
Journal Issues
Chapters in Books
Journal Papers
Conference Papers
Technical Reports and Theses
More &gt;&gt;
Research Corner


Selected Writings




Books

 Modern
Information Retrieval (second edition) co-authored with Berthier
Ribeiro-Neto, a textbook published by Addison-Wesley, 2011. Compare
Internet prices. 
The Web site includes four chapters of the book, slides for teaching, a
reference collection, etc.
The first edition
was published in 1999 as part of the ACM Press series of AW.
Compare Internet prices here.
  
This book includes some chapters by leading researchers in the field.
The Web site contains two chapters, a reference collection, and many
other
resources.
  Table of contents &amp; source code of Handbook
of Algorithms and Data Structures 
(co-authored with G. Gonnet). For all the people that asks me about
the book, it is available in this on-line
bookstore. 
  Table of contents &amp; source code of Information
Retrieval: Algorithms and Data Structures book 
(co-edited with W. Frakes). 
Articles

CACM'95
paper: Computing in Chile: The Jaguar of the Pacific Rim? 
(with D. Fuller, J. Pino and S. Goodman). This version was updated
for the UNIDO newsletter. 
  INET'93
paper: The Chilean Internet Connection or I Never Promised You a
Rose Garden  (with J. Piquer and P. Poblete). 
   Mining the Web
   (Article in Spanish published in El Profesional de
la
Información) 
  Ubiquity and
Usability in the Web (Article in Spanish) 
  Untangling
the Skein 
Updated version of an article in Spanish published in Novática
about searching the Web. 
  Algorithmics:
an article in Spanish about basic algorithms including some nice simple
problems. 
  Teaching Algorithms:
article published in SIGACT News in 1995.
  Al-Khorezmi:
A Forgotten Mathematician 
Updated version of an article in Spanish published in Ciencia al Día 
Opinion


2008: The Year that Facebook Conquered Chile (Article in Spanish published in Polis Digital, nice PDF
version) 
Talk of incorporation to the Chilean Sciences Academy
I am American!
Personal Manifest: Let's Design Everything Again: Thoughts on Computing and Its Teaching (in Spanish). Invited paper presented at CIESC'99 and published in Revista Colombiana de Computación (in Spanish). An abridged English version  was published in the Swiss Magazine Upgrade and also in Spain by Novática in Spanish.
Selected articles from my column in Informática, a local Chilean magazine, from 1985 to 2004 (in Spanish). 
Source Code

 Source code of Xaa:
Animation of String Searching Algorithms 
(co-authored with L. Fuentes). This software is a bit old, so the code
may need some changes for newer versions of X-Windows. 
   Binary source and examples of Vcc:
Visual debugging and animation of C Programs 
for Sparc workstations under Solaris and X-Windows. This software is a
bit old, so the code may need some changes for newer versions of
X-Windows  (co-authored with G. Quezada and G. Valmadre). 

Links




Spin-off

Search in all the Chilean Web!: TodoCL. Study, relations, and map of the Chilean Web.  This search engine is part of a Chilean spin-off in search technology: Barcino.
Activities

Society
and Information Technology, a meeting that I organize every year
since 2000 (in Spanish).
Digital Window: 
A personal experiment of public sensibilization of Internet videoconferencing 
done in 2003 between Santiago (patio of the La Moneda presidential palace)
and the main square in Arica, 2000 kilometers apart, that was opened by
president Lagos (in Spanish).
Subprogram
VII of CYTED: Applied Electronics and Informatics. CYTED is the
Iberoamerican
Cooperation program in Science and Technology, where I was the
international
coordinator of these areas from 2001 to 2005 (all in Spanish). 
CLEI
Electronic Journal (where I was the first the main editor from 1998 to
2005)
Latinamerican Center for Studies in Informatics (CLEI) and Chilean
CS Society (SCCC) 
Chilean node of
the European Molecular Biology Network currently under construction
and
site for a vegetal genome project
where I coordinated the bioinformatics lab until 2005.
Useful pointers

Personal



	Applied Geography (old)
	Pictures 
	Instituto Luis Campino



 This page is always under
construction.For questions and comments please contact
hiveware_enkoder_UPF()
