Julie Zelenski, Stanford CS Lecturer



Julie ZelenskiLecturer in Computer ScienceStanford University

Contact info 
Gates 188, ground floor, B wing
(Where is Gates? See  campus map or check out the ASCII directions)
Phone: 650-725-8596 
Fax: 650-723-6092
E-mail: zelenski@cs.stanford.edu

Fall 2013 I'm teaching  CS107, the all-fun-all-the-time systems programming boot camp. If you're looking for office hours, the cs107 office hours
has the up-to-date schedule for me and all the staff. You can drop by my office at unscheduled times and
check if I'm free or you can send email to set up an appointment. I
recently had my office painted and my carpet replaced, Gates 188 is
now quite the fashion statement-- come by to check it out!






An ode
To the student who missed lecture and asks did I miss anything?


A little bio  I left my rural hometown of Stevinson,
CA (population: 262) to come to Stanford as a wide-eyed freshman
in 1985.  My undergraduate tour of duty included SLE, LSJUMB, a year
on leave, RAing, a sleep debt I still owe on, the beginning of
life-long friendships, near-constant self-doubt, moments (brief) of
glory, and, finally, a Mathematical Sciences degree.  My love of
building things lead to my first job as a software engineer at
NeXT. We had an incredible team, awesome technology, and a whole lot
of fun.  NeXT was acquired by Apple in 1997 and I continued on as a
consulting engineer until 2002. Having one super-cool job apparently
wasn't enough for me, as I also began teaching in the Stanford CS
department in 1992 and I plan to stay here until death do we part. :-)
I teach courses in the undergrad systems curriculum, including
programming methodology and abstractions, language paradigms, computer
systems, compilers, and object-oriented design and development, but I
especially enjoy working with the section leaders in the CS106
courses.  I have been the advisor to the Stanford SWE and ACM-W chapters and served on the
Computer Science Advanced Placement development committee, writing and
grading an exam for 20,000 students nationwide. A quarter's worth of
my CS106B lectures have been unleashed as a part of Stanford Engineering Everywhere, the
beginnings of a project to provide a Stanford-quality education to all
seekers. Right now, I'm having great fun leading the "new CS107", the
second course in the systems core of the redesigned undergrad major.

 Advising 

Thinking about declaring CS or CSE? The CS Undergrad Advising site 
has excellent information about the major, the minor, declaring, advising, and so on. The UAL site for a great wealth of resrouces and information for undergrads of all persuasions.

My CS undergraduate advising group is large and growing. If you're not scared off by crowds, you can come talk to me about joining. Anyone, advisee or not, is welcome to ask questions of me about courses, summer, grad school, etc., so come on by!


My life
I'm married to Matt Vaska, medical device engineer, entrepeneur and all-around superhero. He is also a Stanford alum (BS/MS in ME) and part of his wooing involved a trombone serenade in the Flo Mo courtyard. We are the proud parents of two awesome little guys: our 5th grader Rein and 3rd grader Kalev. Rein and Kalev have earned a reputation for their exam artwork (dragons and robots) and their feats of daring (mom-attack-inducing tree incident). They attend the Spanish Immersion elementary school on campus. You are encouraged to come school me in Spanish, I need all the help I can get keeping up with my kids!



Updated Oct 2013 &middot; zelenski @ cs.stanford.edu


